Front-End Internship Assignment

Objective:
Develop a dashboard page with specific functionalities using provided dummy data APIs.
You will focus on front-end development, emphasizing user interface design, data
handling, and client-side data persistence.

Key Features & Requirements:
​
​
​

Timeline:
● The assignment is expected to be completed and submitted within 48 hours
from the time of receiving the assignment.
Structure:
● The application consists of two main screens:
● Profile Screen: Use the first record from the users’ dummy api
● Comments Dashboard: Displays all the comments from the dummy api

​
​

Profile Screen Functionalities:
● Load the users' data from the dummy users api. Use the first record from that.
● The profile screen is not editable.
● Make sure to add the functionality to go back to the dashboard page
● Integrate proper routing between profile -> dashboard page

​

​

Comments Screen Functionalities:
● Data Population: from the dummy comments api you will get 500 records.
Represent them as a paginated data grid.
● Pagination: Ensure you are not using any in-built library feature to implement
pagination. All the logic related to the selection of page and page size should
be custom implemented. The page size options are 10, 50 and 100.
● Searching: implement partial search logic for name, email and phone.
● Sorting: implement the sorting logic for Post ID, Name and Email.
Behavior:
- If name sort is clicked then it will sort the grid such that the name column is
in ascending order.
- If the user clicks on the name sort again, it will sort in descending order.
- Sorting modes will cycle between no sort-> ascending -> descending-> no sort

for each successive click on the column
- Sorting should be active on only 1 column at a time
● When we refresh the page it should persist search, sort, page and page size
filters.
​

​

Technical Specifications:
● For constructing user interfaces, make use of React.
● Implement UI components using any library of your choice.
● Please ensure that all the code is written in TypeScript. Avoid using plain
JavaScript.
● Ensure cross-browser compatibility (Edge, Firefox, Chrome).

​

​

Evaluation Criteria:
● Requirement and functionality coverage
● Core logic implementation and understanding
● Design quality of the screens (refer to provided wireframes but feel free to
enhance the UI).
● Responsiveness and mobile optimisation of the screen
● Routing between the pages.
● Cross-browser functionality
● Usage of self-implemented components over library components
● Additional plus points for usage of typescript

​

​

Submission Instructions:
● Exclude the node_modules directory when zipping the folder.
● Upload the zipped folder to Google Drive and share the link.

Note:
This assignment is a critical component of your internship application. It will assess your
technical skills, problem-solving abilities, and attention to detail. Good luck!

Wireframes:

